---
sidebar_position: 5
---

### Data Corruption possible with tg3 driver when Intel VT-d is enabled. {#data_corruption_possible_with_tg3_driver_when_intel_vt_d_is_enabled.}

The combination of Linux 5.15 kernel, tg3 driver, and Intel VT-d enabled
appears to be causing data corruption.  This has been verified on
several platforms which include a Broadcom NetXtreme Gigabit Ethernet
NIC (note: there may be others).  This release includes the following
workaround:

Very early in server startup (rc.S) if Intel VT-d is detected enabled,
then the script will unconditionally create the file:

` /etc/modprobe.d/tg3.conf`

with following content:

`blacklist tg3`

Hence by default if VT-d is enabled, which is to say, it has not been
disabled in either bios or via kernel \"intel_iommu=off\", then we are
going to blacklist the tg3 driver on all platforms. What if someone has
a platform where tg3 does not give them any trouble with VT-d enabled?
In this case they must create an *empty* file on their flash device:

`config/modprobe.d/tg3.conf`

When the startup sequence continues it will get to the point where it
executes:

`install -p -m 0644 /boot/config/modprobe.d/* /etc/modprobe.d`

A *blank* tg3.conf file stored on the flash then effectively
un-blacklists it.

There will be users who will lose network connectivity because their NIC
is blacklisted. If you are running on a problematic platform you should
go into your bios and disable VT-d. If this is a platform without issue,
then you will need to create the blank tg3.conf file on your flash
config/modprobe.d directory.

It may take some time to identify and integrate a proper fix for this
issue, at which point we will remove the auto-blacklisting code.

#### **How to Disable Intel VT-d on HP MicroServer Gen 8 with a E3-1265LV2** {#how_to_disable_intel_vt_d_on_hp_microserver_gen_8_with_a_e3_1265lv2}

Reboot the server, then:

-   During bootup press F9 to enter the bios.
-   Once the bios is loaded enter the menu System Options -\> Processor
    Options -\> Intel(R) VT-d
-   Set it to disabled
-   Press Esc to get to the top menu again
-   Press F10 to exit the bios and save

The server should now boot again as normal. Hat tip to Community member
[Oceanic for the
instructions](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/124108-unraid-os-version-6102-available/#comment-1132042).

### Security-related Changes {#security_related_changes}

-   The Firefox browser and has been updated to version 100.0.2 to
    address a very nasty security vulnerability.  If you use Firefox we
    also suggest upgrading on all platforms.
-   We fixed an issue where webGUI login could accept a password from a
    user other than \'root\', if that username included the string
    \'root\'.
-   The Linux kernel was updated to 5.15.43 to address a \"security
    bypass\" vulnerability.

### Other Changes {#other_changes}

-   On Management Access page, for the \"Use SSL/TLS\" setting we
    changed the word \"Auto\" to \"Strict\" in the drop-down menu.  This
    better describes the action of this setting.
-   Docker manager now uses Docker label for icons as fallback.
-   VM manager now gives the option of using LibVirt networks in
    addition to bridges without having to edit the VM\'s XML.
-   Improved handling of custom SSL certificates.
-   \[6.10.1\] Fix regression: support USB flash boot from other than
    partition 1
-   other misc. bug fixes

## Version 6.10.2 2022-05-27 {#version_6.10.2_2022_05_27}

### Base distro: {#base_distro}

-   firefox AppImage: version: 100.0.r20220519220738 (CVE-2022-1802
    CVE-2022-1529)

### Linux kernel: {#linux_kernel}

-   version 5.15.43-Unraid (CVE-2022-21499)

### Management:

-   nginx: avoid appending default port number to redirect URLs
-   nginx: self-signed cert file: accept common name and all alternate
    names
-   startup: fix multiple network interfaces being assigned the same MAC
    address
-   startup: blacklist tg3 by default if Intel VT-d is enabled
-   webgui: Management Access: Use SSL/TLS setting: change the word
    \'Auto\' to \'Strict\'
-   webgui: Fixed: smGlue not included when selecting a controller
-   webgui: Fixed: allow share names with embedded ampersand
-   webgui: add LXC terminal support (for LXC Plugin)
-   webgui: Docker Web UI to use Docker label for icons as fallback
-   webgui: VM Manager: support libvirt networks (make libvirt networks
    accessible via gui)
-   webgui: fix issue where \'root\' login works with password from
    another username which includes string \'root\'
-   webgui: Update OS page spelling corrction: warninging -\> warning
-   webgui: helptext review: minor corrections