## Version 6.11.1 2022-10-06

### Improvements

Updated both qemu and libvirt to latest versions:

- Added ppc, riscv32/riscv64, and aarch64 support.

Updated docker to v20.10.18 and improved networking:

- When DHCP is used, wait for IPv4 assignment before proceeding on system startup, this avoids a
possible race-condition at boot time when host access to custom networks is enabled.
- Allow user defined networks to be reconnected at docker service start. Now all defined networks
will be automatically reconnected.

VM Manager improvements:

- Implemented option to use Virtiofs for mapping of Unraid host shares into a VM.
- Added Spice html client for Virtual Machines (experimental).

### Notable Bug fixes

- Fixed issue where opening certain pages, eg, Dashboard, needlessly causes writes to the USB Flash boot device.

- Fixed the issue of docker containers can reach the Internet when the WG tunnel is not autostarted
at system boot up. **Users are advised to regenerate the WG configs.**  This can be done, e.g., by
clicking in a field to change a value and then change it back in order to get the Apply button to light
up. Then click Apply.

- Fixed issue where empty popup windows gets displayed with certain browsers and devices.

- Restored "NTLMv1 authenication" for incoming SMB connections.

## Change Log vs. Unraid OS 6.11.0

#### Base distro:

- acpid: version 2.0.34
- bash: version 5.2.000
- bind: version 9.18.7
- ca-certificates: version 20220922
- dbus: version 1.14.2
- dnsmasq: version 2.87
- docker: version 20.10.18 (CVE-2022-27664 CVE-2022-32190 CVE-2022-36109)
- git: version 2.38.0
- glib2: version 2.72.4
- glibc-zoneinfo: version 2022d
- gnutls: version 3.7.8
- harfbuzz: version 5.2.0
- intel-microcode: version 20220809
- libXtst: version 1.2.4
- libXxf86vm: version 1.1.5
- libffi: version 3.4.3
- libvirt: version 8.7.0
- libvirt-php: version 0.5.6
- lsof: version 4.96.3
- nghttp2: version 1.50.0
- pango: version 1.50.11
- qemu: version 7.1.0 (built adding ppc, riscv32/64 support, replace arm with aarch64)
- sqlite: version 3.39.4
- xterm: version 373
- xz: version 5.2.7

#### Linux kernel:

- version 5.19.14
- CONFIG_DRM_MGAG200: Matrox G200
- CONFIG_X86_SGX: Software Guard eXtensions (SGX)
- CONFIG_X86_SGX_KVM: Software Guard eXtensions (SGX) Virtualization
- CONFIG_CRYPTO_ZSTD: Zstd compression algorithm
- md/unraid: version 2.9.25
- patch: silence EDID "block all zeros" and "has corrupt header" notices
- patch: add NVMe quirks for non-compliant devices reported by users

#### Management:

- webgui: VM Manager: Update GUI Options
  - Include 9P and Virtiofs
  - Remove 9P option for Windows.
  - Update XML if virtiofs and Windows in addition to Linux.
  - Update VM Share GUI Options
- webgui: Fixed: wrong feedback display on VM page
- webgui: Dashboard: store graph data in file instead of cookie
- webgui: Ask user to provide diagnostics before downgrading the OS
- webgui: Spice html client in addition to VNC
- webgui: improve handling of windows-style config files
- webgui: WireGuard: add explicit interface name in routing
- webgui: SWAL: intercept "esc" button to stop nchan upon window closing
- webgui: nchan: delayed command execution
  - This prevents an empty popup window in certain browsers and devices