# Version 6.12.12 2024-08-20

## Upgrade notes

Unraid 6.12 continues to benefit from the work being done on Unraid 7, this release has several more bug fixes backported
from Unraid 7 as well as a security fix for curl.

### Known issues

#### Out of date plugins

Out of date plugins can cause problems, we recommend they be kept current.

#### Call traces and crashes related to macvlan

If you are getting call traces related to macvlan (or any unexplained crashes, really), as a first step
we recommend navigating to ***Settings > Docker***, switching to **advanced** view, and changing
the **Docker custom network type** from **macvlan** to **ipvlan**. This is the default configuration
that Unraid has shipped with since version 6.11.5 and should work for most systems.

Note that some users have reported issues with port forwarding from certain routers (Fritzbox) and reduced
functionality with advanced network management tools (Ubiquity) when in ipvlan mode. If this affects you,
see the alternate solution available since Unraid [6.12.4](6.12.4.md#fix-for-macvlan-call-traces).

#### Network problems due to jumbo frames

If you are having network issues of any kind, confirm that you have not enabled jumbo frames.
Navigate to ***Settings > Network Settings > eth0*** and confirm the **Desired MTU** is 1500.
For more information see the [Fix Common Problems warning for jumbo frames](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/120220-fix-common-problems-more-information/page/2/#comment-1167702).

#### Problems due to Realtek network cards

Upgraded kernel fixes the deadlock issue with jumbo frames and the in-tree Realtek 8125 driver. However, we
still recommend following the advice above regarding jumbo frames.

If you continue to have network stability issues and ***Tools > System Devices*** shows that you have a Realtek ethernet controller,
grab the part number shown and search Community Apps to see if there is a Realtek vendor-supplied driver plugin for that device.
For more information, see the [support page for Realtek driver plugins](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/141349-plugin-realtek-r8125-r8168-and-r81526-drivers/).

#### Other issues?

We highly recommend installing the **Fix Common Problems** plugin as it will warn you of common configuration problems.

If you are having other crashes or stability issues, navigate to ***Settings > Syslog Server*** and
enable **Mirror syslog to flash**. This will cause additional wear and tear on you USB flash boot device but is
useful in the short term for gathering logs after a crash.

After the next reboot, navigate to ***Tools > Diagnostics*** and download your anonymized diagnostics (as of 6.12.5,
diagnostics automatically include logs that were mirrored to the flash drive).

Finally, start a new topic under [General Support](https://forums.unraid.net/forum/55-general-support/) and provide all the
details of the issue. Once the issue is resolved, be sure to disable **Mirror syslog to flash**.

### Rolling back

If rolling back earlier than 6.12.11, also see the [6.12.11 release notes](6.12.11.md#rolling-back).

## Changes vs. [6.12.11](6.12.11.md)

### Bug fixes and improvements

* Protect from Docker fork bombs by adding default *Docker PID Limit* to ***Settings > Docker Settings***
* shfs: fix "split level 0" (Manual split level) regression
* Remove hard-coded hosts file entry for keys.lime-technology.com
* Use "go links" when linking to Docs
* Fix UPS settings page when config contains empty values
* update.php: release file pointer after usage
* Diagnostics: anonymize IPv6 addresses
* Fix: After stopping and then restarting the array, nfsd is not running
* Fix: Deleting a share does not remove it from SMB and NFS
* Fix: Saving routes only works in English
* Startup improvements in rc.S script:
  * Automatically repair boot sector backup
  * Explicitly unmount all file systems if cannot continue boot
* Sort users in natural order on shares page
* webgui: replace document.write() usages
* Fixed a typo in help text
* Remove deprecated /etc/apcupsd/doshutdown script
* UserEdit: in addition to Ed25519, FIDO/U2F Ed25519, and RSA, support SSH key types DSA, ECDSA, and FIDO/U2F ECDSA
* Fix: PHPSettings.page:  fix inconsistent PHP error reporting defaults
* Dashboard: Soften messages during parity sync/check

### Linux kernel

* version 6.1.103

### Base distro

* curl: version 8.9.1 (CVE-2024-7264)
