# Version 6.12.5 2023-11-27

## Upgrade notes

This release includes bug fixes and security updates.  All users are encouraged to upgrade.

### Known issues

There is a mitigation included for a [ZFS Data Corruption](https://github.com/openzfs/zfs/issues/15526) issue.  This is accomplished
by including this option in the default `/etc/modprobe.d/zfs.conf` file:

`zfs_dmu_offset_next_sync=0`

Please see the [6.12.0 release notes](6.12.0.md#known-issues) for general known issues.

### Rolling back

If rolling back earlier than 6.12.4, also see the [6.12.4 release notes](6.12.4.md#rolling-back).

## Changes vs. [6.12.4](6.12.4.md)

### Bug fixes and improvements

- Replace very old 'MemTest86+' with Memtest86+ version: 6.20
  - There are also [Boot Options](https://github.com/memtest86plus/memtest86plus#boot-options) available.
- When 'mirror syslog to flash' is enabled, view syslog-previous at Tools -> Syslog, and in diagnostics
- Docker:
  - Docker containers were not always stopping, preventing docker from unmounting
  - Docker containers using IPv6 on custom networks were unable to start
- emhttpd: if User Shares not enabled, update\_cron was not called during array Start sequence
- rc.nginx stop - force nginx to stop
- shfs: Allocation method was not working correctly if 6 or more disks were specified in the 'include' mask
- webgui:
  - Downgrade.php was not updated for 6.12
  - always show ipvlan / macvlan setting
- ZFS: use 'zfs import -f' to ensure pools from other systems get imported
- prevent auto-spindown of unformatted devices

### Package updates

- curl: version 8.4.0 (CVE-2023-38546 CVE-2023-38545 CVE-2023-38039)
- firefox: version 119.0.r20231106151204 (AppImage)
- intel-microcode: version 20231114
- kernel-firmware: 20231024\_4ee0175
- qemu: version 7.2.0
- samba: version 4.17.12 (CVE-2023-3961 CVE-2023-4091 CVE-2023-4154 CVE-2023-42669 CVE-2023-42670)
- smartmontools: version 7.4
- zfs: version 2.1.13

### Linux kernel

- version 6.1.63
- CONFIG\_USB\_NET\_CDC\_NCM: CDC NCM support
- CONFIG\_NFS\_V4\_1: NFS client support for NFSv4.1
- CONFIG\_NFS\_V4\_1\_MIGRATION: NFSv4.1 client support for migration
- CONFIG\_NFS\_V4\_2: NFS client support for NFSv4.2
- CONFIG\_NFS\_V4\_2\_READ\_PLUS: NFS: Enable support for the NFSv4.2 READ\_PLUS operation
- CONFIG\_NFSD\_V4\_2\_INTER\_SSC: NFSv4.2 inter server to server COPY

## Patches

With the [Unraid Patch plugin](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/185560-unraid-patch-plugin/) installed, visit ***Tools → Unraid Patch*** to get the following patches / hot fixes:

- A subset of security updates, see [this blog post](https://unraid.net/blog/cvd) for details. We recommend upgrading to the latest stable release for additional security updates.
