# Version 7.2.0-beta.1 2025-08-01

This release adds a responsive webGUI! Most screens should now work as well on your phone as they do on your desktop monitor. The Unraid API is now built-in, and the release also brings RAIDZ expansion, Ext2/3/4 and NTFS support, and the (optional) ability to login to the webgui via SSO, among other features and bug fixes.

Plugin authors, please see this post describing [how to update your plugins to make them responsive](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/192172-responsive-webgui-plugin-migration-guide/).

## Upgrading

### Known issues

#### Tailscale Docker Integration

The Tailscale Docker integration is broken in this beta. If you use this functionality, we recommend waiting for the next beta.

#### Plugins

The Theme Engine and Dark Theme plugins are incompatible and will be automatically uninstalled, as will outdated versions of Unraid Connect.

Please upgrade all plugins, particularly Unraid Connect and the Nvidia driver before updating.
Note that some plugins may have visual issues in this release, please give plugin authors time to make adjustments.

For other known issues, see the [7.1.4 release notes](7.1.4.md#known-issues).

### Rolling back

If rolling back earlier than 7.1.4, also see the [7.1.4 release notes](7.1.4.md#rolling-back).

## Changes vs. [7.1.4](7.1.4.md)

### Storage

#### ZFS RAIDZ expansion

You can now expand your single-vdev RAIDZ1/2/3 pools, one drive at a time:

* With the array running, on ***Main → Pool Devices***, select the pool name to view the details
* In the **Pool Status** area, check for an **Upgrade Pool** button. If one exists, you'll need to click that before continuing. Note that upgrading the pool will limit your ability to downgrade to earlier releases of Unraid (7.1 should be OK, but not 7.0)
* Stop the array
* On ***Main → Pool Devices***, add a slot to the pool
* Select the appropriate drive (must be at least as large as the smallest drive in the pool)
* Start the array

#### Ext2/3/4 and NTFS Support

Unraid now supports the Ext2/3/4 and NTFS drive formats in addition to XFS, BTRFS, and ZFS.

You can create an array or single device pool with existing drives formatted in Ext2/3/4 or NTFS, and you can format drives in Ext4 or NTFS.

#### Other storage changes

* Two-device ZFS pools are mirrored by default, but you can make them RAIDZ1 if you plan to expand that vdev in the future
* Fix display issue on Main page when two pools are named similarly

### Networking

#### Other networking changes

* Feature: IPv6 Docker custom networks now support Unique Local Addresses (ULA) in addition to the more standard Global Unicast Addresses (GUA), assuming your router provides both subnets when the Unraid host gets an IPv6 address via DHCP or SLAAC. To use, assign a custom static IP from the appropriate subnet to the container.
* Fix: The ***Settings → Network Settings → Interface Rules*** page sometimes showed the wrong network driver (was just a display issue)

### VM Manager

#### Other VM changes

* Feature: Save PCI hardware data, warn if hardware used by VM changes
* Feature: Support virtual sound cards in VMs
* Feature: Differentiate between Intel E-Cores and P-Cores
* Feature: Enhance multimonitor support, automatically enabling spicevmc when needed
* Feature: Upgrade to noVNC v1.6
* Removed historical OpenElec and LibreElec VM templates
* Fix: VM Console did not work when user shares were disabled

### Unraid API

The Unraid API is now built in to Unraid! The new Notifications panel is the first major feature to use it, over time the entire webGUI will be updated to use it.

The Unraid API is fully open sourced: [https://github.com/unraid/api](https://github.com/unraid/api), get started building apps here [https://docs.unraid.net/API/](https://docs.unraid.net/API/).

The Unraid Connect plugin adds functionality which communicates with our cloud servers, it remains completely optional.

#### Other Unraid API changes

* dynamix.unraid.net 4.12.0

### WebGUI

#### Responsive CSS

The Unraid webGUI is now responsive! Most screens should now work as well on your phone as they do on your desktop monitor.

#### Login to the WebGUI via SSO

To enable this *optional* feature, visit ***Settings → Management Access → Unraid Connect*** and add your [Unraid.net Account ID](https://account.unraid.net/settings) to the list of authorized API SSO Users. Once configured, a **Login with Unraid.net** button will be added to the login page.

#### Other WebGUI changes

* Feature: Add new notifications management view, access via the bell in the upper right corner of the webGUI
* Feature: Add progress indicator to Docker / Plugin / VM popup window
* Feature: (Optional) Allow specific unraid.net accounts to login to the webGUI, see ***Settings → Management Access → Unraid API***
* Feature: Show countdown timer on login page when locked out due to too many incorrect login attempts
* Feature: Add *Force Install* button to bypass version checks when manually installing plugins
* Feature: Add ***Tools → Open Terminal*** page, can access it by searching for "terminal". Can optionally remove Terminal button from toolbar via ***Settings → Display Settings → Show Terminal Button in header***
* Feature: ***Users → Root → SSH authorized keys*** now supports more formats
* Feature: Added a welcome screen for new systems, shown after setting the root password
* Fix: Re-enable smart test buttons after completion of test
* Fix: Prevent webGUI from crashing when dynamix.cfg is corrupt
* Fix: `blob:` links shouldn't be considered external

## Misc

* Feature: Do not execute `go` script when in safe mode, create `/boot/config/go.safemode` script if needed
* Feature: Require auth on `http://localhost`. This improves security and allows Tailscale Funnel to work with the webGUI. Note that when booting in gui mode, you will now need to login again to access the webGUI.
* Feature: Add favicon and web app manifest support
* Feature: License key upgrades are installed automatically, without needing to restart the array
* Feature: Thunderbolt devices will be auto-authorized when connected
* Feature: Improvements to custom udev rules and scripts, at boot:
  * `/boot/config/udev/*.rules` are copied to `/etc/udev/rules.d/`
  * `/boot/config/udev/*.sh` are copied to `/etc/udev/scripts/` where they can be used by your custom udev rules
* Fix: Remove support for nonworking ipv6.hash.myunraid.net URLs

### Other changes

### Linux kernel

* version 6.12.40-Unraid
  * built-in: CONFIG_EFIVAR_FS: EFI Variable filesystem

### Base distro updates

* adwaita-icon-theme: version 48.1
* at-spi2-core: version 2.56.3
* bash: version 5.3.003
* bind: version 9.20.11
* btrfs-progs: version 6.15
* ca-certificates: version 20250714
* cifs-utils: version 7.4
* cryptsetup: version 2.8.0
* curl: version 8.15.0
* e2fsprogs: version 1.47.3
* ethtool: version 6.15
* fontconfig: version 2.17.1
* git: version 2.50.1
* glib2: version 2.84.3
* gnutls: version 3.8.10
* grub: version 2.12
* harfbuzz: version 11.3.2
* iproute2: version 6.15.0
* inih: version 61
* iputils: version 20250605
* kbd: version 2.8.0
* kernel-firmware: version 20250721_d89120b
* less: version 679
* libarchive: version 3.8.1
* libdrm: version 2.4.125
* libffi: version 3.5.1
* libjpeg-turbo: version 3.1.1
* libnvme: version 1.15
* libpng: version 1.6.50
* libssh: version 0.11.2
* liburing: version 2.11
* libusb: version 1.0.29
* libwebp: version 1.6.0
* libxkbcommon: version 1.10.0
* libxml2: version 2.14.5
* libzip: version 1.11.4
* lsof: version 4.99.5
* lvm2: version 2.03.33
* mcelog: version 206
* mesa: version 25.1.6
* nano: version 8.5
* ncurses: version 6.5_20250705
* nettle: version 3.10.2
* nghttp2: version 1.66.0
* nghttp3: version 1.11.0
* noto-fonts-ttf: version 2025.07.01
* nvme-cli: version 2.15
* openssl: version 3.5.1
* ovmf: version unraid202502
* pam: version 1.7.1
* pango: version 1.56.4
* pciutils: version 3.14.0
* perl: version 5.42.0
* php: version 8.3.21-x86_64-1_LT with gettext extension
* pixman: version 0.46.4
* rclone: version 1.70.1-x86_64-1_SBo_LT.tgz
* readline: version 8.3.001
* samba: version 4.22.2
* shadow: version 4.18.0
* smartmontools: version 7.5
* spirv-llvm-translator: version 20.1.4
* sqlite: version 3.50.3
* sudo: version 1.9.17p1
* tevent: version 0.17.0
* userspace-rcu: version 0.15.3
* util-linux: version 2.41.1
* wayland: version 1.24.0
* wireguard-tools: version 1.0.20250521
* wireless-regdb: version 2025.07.10
* xfsprogs: version 6.15.0
* xkeyboard-config: version 2.45
* xorg-server: version 21.1.18
* xterm: version 401
* zfs: version zfs-2.3.3_6.12.39_Unraid-x86_64-2_LT
